---
layout: post
title:  "Use Windows Fonts in WSL"
date:   2021-12-02 12:00:00 +0530
categories: tweaks
tags:
    - wsl
    - fonts
---
[//]: # (The body)

Out of the box, it seems like **WSL** comes with only a limited set of fonts. While for a CLI environment this might (?) be adequate, when we start using GUI apps in WSL (which it now supports via **WSLg**), font support would really start to matter. When I was using web-browsers like **qutebrowser** and **surf** on WSL, I found that most glyphs were not rendered. Furthermore, while using the **gnome-tweaks** tool which lists the fonts available, the list was very short. The available fonts can also be viewed with
```shell
fc-list
```
which is basically the **font-config** utility. Our plan is to use fonts installed in Windows instead of installing any more, following [this guide][1].

Windows fonts reside primarily in two locations:
  - Default fonts in *C:/Windows/Fonts* directory (if installed for all users)
  - User-installed fonts in *%USERPROFILE%/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/Fonts* directory (if installed per-user)

We need to refer to these two locations. For that, we go to
```shell
cd /etc/fonts
```
and create a new configuration file *local.conf* with admin privileges:
```shell
sudo vi local.conf
```
and write the following
```xml {title="/etc/fonts/local.conf"}
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE fontconfig SYSTEM "fonts.dtd">
<fontconfig>
        <dir>/mnt/c/Windows/Fonts</dir>
        <dir>/mnt/c/Users/user-name/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/Fonts</dir>
</fontconfig>
```
where we have translated the paths to Linux-style paths. The second directory addition is a little iffy because it depends on the username ("user-name"). We can skip the second addition if one installs all fonts for all users: *Right-click on font > Install for all users*.

Next we can refresh the font-cache:
```
fc-cache -fv
```
where `-f` forces scan of directories where font-cache is present, `-v` displays verbose output.





[//]: # (Footnotes, if any)

[^fn]: Footnote





[//]: # (Links, if any)

[1]: <https://www.linuxtut.com/en/6ea7665529b022eb5f45/>